The GM decides when circumstances are appropriate for hiding. When you try to [[Action#Hide|hide]], make a [[Stealth|Dexterity (Stealth)]] check. Until you are discovered or you stop hiding, that check’s total is contested by the [[Perception|Wisdom (Perception)]] check of any creature that actively searches for signs of your presence.  
  
You can’t hide from a creature that can see you clearly, and you give away your position if you make noise, such as shouting a warning or knocking over a vase.  
An [[Invisible]] creature can always try to hide. Signs of its passage might still be noticed, and it does have to stay quiet.  
  
In [[combat]], most creatures stay alert for signs of danger all around, so if you come out of hiding and approach a creature, it usually sees you. However, under certain circumstances, the GM might allow you to stay hidden as you approach a creature that is distracted, allowing you to gain [[advantage]] on an attack roll before you are seen.  
  
**Passive Perception**. When you [[Hiding|hide]], there’s a chance someone will notice you even if they aren’t searching. To determine whether such a creature notices you, the GM compares your [[Stealth|Dexterity (Stealth)]] check with that creature’s [[Passive Perception|Passive Wisdom (Perception)]], as well as any other bonuses or penalties. If the creature has [[advantage]], add 5. For [[disadvantage]], subtract 5. For example, if a 1st-­level character (with a proficiency bonus of +2) has a [[Wisdom]] of 15 (a +2 modifier) and proficiency in [[Perception]], he or she has a  [[Passive Perception|Passive Wisdom (Perception)]] of 14.  
  
_**What Can You See?**_ One of the main factors in determining whether you can find a hidden creature or object is how well you can see in an area, which might be **lightly** or **heavily obscured**, as explained in “[The Environment](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Rules:The%20Environment?expansion=34047#toc_3).”